One thing is
crystal clear in the health care scenario of 2026.  Buying
health insurance just by looking at the sum insured or premium is
now an outdated approach.  The
real question today is
whether your plan will
work even in extreme medical situations?  And this is where the comparison gets
interesting because on one hand there is the
Black variant of NMAB rhsur 3.0 which makes a
bold promise of unlimited sum assured
and on the other hand there is the Elevate plan of ICICI LBD
which offers
a complete customisable ecosystem with advanced benefits like unlimited reset fertility and surrogacy.
In today's video, we will
stay away from the marketing world and do a
real life practical and 2026 ready
comparison of both these plans so that you can decide
which plan looks good only in the brochures
and which plan will actually
stand at the time of claim.  Before Moving Ahead Let
Me Quickly Introduce Myself.  I
am Soni Chauhan and welcome to Policy
Hub.  Where we make insurance
simple, transparent and stress free.  If
you are confused about health or term insurance,
then book a free consultation with
Policy Now's IRDAI certified experts through the link given in the description.
Here you
get genuine guidance without any sales pressure which
helps you in taking the right decision for your family.  And
if you like such honest no filter insurance
reviews then do subscribe to the channel
and like and share the video.
Let's start with the
background and claim strength of both the companies
because the real test of insurance is at the
time of claim.  Nima Bupa Health
Insurance is a joint venture between Indian
private equity firm Threat North and
global healthcare expert Bupa.
Due to its exclusive focus on health insurance, its service driven approach is
considered to be quite strong.  The company has
10,000 plus network hospitals and the claim
settlement ratio is around 92% which
indicates overall reliable support.
ICICI LBAD
is the flagship general insurance company of the ICIC Group.  Brand trust,
strong balance sheet and corporate
dominance are its biggest strengths.
Along with the health segment,
ICICI LBA also has a strong presence in motor and corporate insurance.
Their claim settlement
ratio is around 97% and network hospitals are
10,000 plus.
Nema Bupa seems a little focused in terms of health only specialization.
Whereas ICICI Low LBA stands as a diversified yet highly
stable insurer.
Now let us come to eligibility and policy structure
which has become very important in 2026.  The
adult entry age for the Black variant of the Nivapar Reshore 3.0
starts from 18 years and goes up to a maximum of 99 years.
Which
is also a big plus point for senior citizens.  Dependent
Children Family Floater Plan
covers from 91 days to 30 years, which is
also quite relevant considering the late dependency trend.  The
biggest highlight of this plan
is the unlimited sum insured.  Meaning,
theoretically there is no upper ceiling on the claim amount.  The
premium structure
is divided into eight zones, which can make pricing
a bit complex but
provides location-based flexibility.  Whereas
in ICIC Low LBA Elevate, the adult entry age
starts from 18 years and there
is no upper age limit.  Dependent children are
covered from 91 days to 30 years.  The sum
insured here starts from Rs 5 lakh
and goes up to unlimited sum assured.
Another advantage of the Elevate plan is its
five-year policy tenure, which
is very beneficial for long-term planners.   The
premium is divided into four zones which
makes prying a little simpler.
Talking about basic coverage, both the
plans fall in the premium category and
cover almost all the essential benefits.
Inpatient
hospitalization, day care procedures,
domiciliary treatment and organ donor
expenses are fully covered in both the plans.  There is no submission
on room rent and ICU charges in NEEB REACH 3.0.  This
means you
can choose any category of room without any
extra cost.  Whereas in ICC Lombard
Elevate plan,
maximum single private AC room is allowed within the base plan.
But
you can remove this limit through Room Modifier add on.
ICU charges are fully covered.
AYUSH treatments and
modern procedures like robotic surgeries are also
fully included in both the plans.  Pre-
hospitalization expenses are covered
for 60 days in Rushor 3.0 and 90 days in Elevate plan.
Whereas post hospitalization
expenses are covered for up to 180 days in both the plans.
Now let us come to those unique
benefits where the philosophy of both these plans becomes
clearly understood.  The
biggest strength of the Black variant of the Neema Booper Reacher 3.0
is its Unlimited Sum Insured
plus Lock the Clock benefit.  Where Lock the
Clock insures that
your premium will
not increase with age until you make a claim.  This is a
very valuable feature for long term policy holders.
Through the Wellness Program, you can
avail up to 30% discount on renewal premium.  Day One pre-
existing disease cover is also available for
145 listed conditions.  But this
depends on underwriting approval.   The
approach of ICIC LBAD Elevate
is more flexible and modular.  The highlight of this plan
is the unlimited reset benefit which
works for both same and unrelated diseases.  Guaranteed Cumulative Bonus
gives you a bonus of 20% of the sum insured every year, which increases up to a maximum of 100%.
And the good thing is that
this bonus does not reduce after the claim.
Another unique advantage of the Elevate plan is the
in-patient treatment cover for the surrogate mother and oocyte donor,
which
is still available in very limited plans.  You
can also avail up to 30% discount on renewal premium through wellness program.
Talking about add-ons, from here the
character of both the plans becomes more clearly defined.  The
Safeguard Plus rider in Neema Bubar Resur 3.0 covers non-payable items.
Well Consult Plus covers OPD
expenses like doctor consultation,
diagnostics and medicines.   The
plan
offers the option of international treatment through border benefits, which
is very useful for globally mobile families.
Cashback Plus benefit
offers rewards and discounts in a claim-free year.  Additionally,
add-ons like critical illness rider, personal accident and hospital cash benefit are also
available.  Whereas the ICIC LBA Elvid plan is
quite advanced and extensive in terms of add-ons.
Pre-existing diseases are covered after just 30 days through Jump Start add-on.
Infinite Care allows
one-time unlimited sum assured claim in a lifetime.
BeFit covers OPD expenses.
Additionally, aids like inflation protector,
nursing at home, durable medical
equipment, teleconsultation and compassionate
visits make this plan a complete
healthcare ecosystem.  Now, when it comes to the
discount section, ICIC LBA
Elevate seems a bit aggressive.  Neempaa
offers standard long term discounts up to 15% and wellness based discounts up to 30%.  Whereas in ICC LMB LAT, wellness
discount up to 30%, long term discount
up to 15%, early renewal discount 2.5%
and additional discount of 15% can also be availed on the basis of CIVIL score.
Which
optimizes the premium considerably.
Talking about the waiting period, both the
plans follow a standard structure.
Where the initial waiting period
is 30 days.  2 years for specific diseases and maternity
and
maximum 3 years for pre-existing diseases.  Waiting periods can be effectively reduced through options like Jump Start at Elvet
and Disease Management at Nima Bupa.
If
we understand the premium comparison clearly then the
premium of the Black variant of Neema Bupa Reshore 3.0 depends on the city wise zones.  The
family floater plan for two members aged 30 and 25 with unlimited sum
assured has a premium of Rs 2273 in Zone
One, Rs 21344 in Zone Two, Rs
2047 in Zone Three, Rs
19489 in Zone Four, Rs 18561 in Zone Five, Rs
1896 in Zone Six, Rs
17632 in Zone 1
and Rs 17168 in Zone 8.
This pricing structure makes
it clear that the premium for Reshore 3.0
falls in the mid to high range, which
justifies its unlimited sum insured and repeated claim protection.
Whereas in ICIC LBAD Elevate plan, for same age
family configuration and 10 lex sum
insured, the premium is Rs 10994 in Zone One, Rs
9953 in Zone Two, Rs
9432 in Zone Three
and Rs 12,596 in Zone Four.
This pricing model of Elvet
is attractive for those customers who
want to start the plan with a low base premium and later prefer to customize the coverage by
selecting add-ons as per their requirements.
From an overall premium perspective, the
Black variant of the Nema Reshore 3.0
focuses on maximum protection up front.
While ICC LBMA offers a modular approach
with debit flexibility and cost control.
Where the
final premium largely depends on your selected add-
ons and customizations.   The
picture is quite clear here.  If your
priority is the maximum possible protection
with virtually no ceiling and you
want a plan that can shield against extreme medical
inflation, then the
Black variant of the Neevapar Reash 3.0
becomes a powerful future-proof option.
But if you want flexibility,
fertility-related coverage, unlimited
resets, a strong wellness ecosystem, and
customizable add-ons, the ICC LB Elevate 2026
aligns more with modern family needs.  The best health insurance
plan is the one that syncs with your life planning,
budget and health goals.  If you are
still confused about which plan will be better in your case,
then book a free consultation with the
policy's IRDI certified experts through the link given in the description.  If you found the
video helpful, please
like the video.
Share this with your friends and family and don't
forget to subscribe to the channel for more such real and honest insurance comparisons.  See you in the next video
with another practical comparison.  Till then
stay aware, stay protected and
stay insured.